♪ ♪
[coughs]
♪ Who can it be knocking
at my door? ♪
♪ Go away. ♪
♪ don't come round here
no more. ♪
♪ All I wish is
to be alone. ♪
♪ Stay away. don't you
invade my home. ♪
♪ Who can it be now? ♪
♪ ♪
[coughs]
[inhales]
[coughing]
[gasping]
The papers were what was
believed to be an early draft
of Mark Twain's most famous
novel. Huckleberry Finn.
But the bitter irony
is that after analysis
the chapters were found
to be forgeries.
Professor Mac McKinnon
had murdered his
Elmstead College colleague.
Professor Nicole Ford.
for nothing.
McKinnon is currently serving
30 years
at the Washington State
Eastern Correctional Facility
because We Know Whodunnit.
You know. I really dislike
these shows.
especially when you know
the people involved.
And the fact that the chapters
were forged.
I mean. that's brutal.
Well. fake Mark Twain writings
are all too common.
Which is ironic. seeing
as that Mark Twain
is actually a pseudonym.
That's right.
Hey. did you know
Nicole and Mac?
Yeah.
Yeah. I worked with them
for years.
We were friends.
I wasn't teaching at Elmstead
by the time they joined
the faculty.
I knew them through Amy.
Hmm.
You know. Mac always claimed
he was innocent.
Do you believe him?
Well. I know that they said
they had physical evidence
but I know Mac
and he did not do it.
Well. that was as sensational
as I remember it.
It happened a couple years ago
so why are you watching
it tonight?
Because I'm talking
to that writer tomorrow.
Ella Quincy?
Hmm.
Yeah. she's writing a book
about the case
so I just kinda wanted to
freshen up on all the details.
I will say this.
I've been a cop for a while
and I have never seen anybody
use strychnine in an asthma
inhaler as the murder weapon.
That was very original.
That is just the thing
I'm looking for
in the next Atticus
Keller novel.
You should steal it.
Well. you know. artists
do that sometimes.
Speaking of which.
I heard there is a waiting list
for your reading on Tuesday.
Well. I should hope so.
You guys have your reservations.
right?
- Ooh.
- Huh?
Do we need reservations?
Amy. did you make a reservation?
I forgot.
Oh. come on.
Are you kidding?
We're not gonna get in.
No...
[laughs]
Of course we're coming
to your reading!
Front row centre.
That was very good.
Honey. woah. That was good.
You know. I didn't know much
about your predecessor-
Detective Clawson?
Yeah. yeah.
I just know that he's definitely
no Travis Burke.
What. he didn't let you tag
along and help him solve crimes?
[laughs]
No. that is not what I meant.
No. I'm just saying it-
it didn't seem like he had
the kind of passion that
you do for the job. that's all.
Yeah. I didn't know the guy.
We only overlapped
for like two weeks.
I do know that he was very happy
to retire.
Yeah.
Alright.
Hey. Amy. um... after your dad's
reading on Tuesday night
I was gonna grab a bite to eat.
Would you like to join me?
Yeah. of course.
Yeah. we can ask Dad while
we're here. if you want.
We could. yeah. but I was kinda
hoping it would be just us.
You mean...
You mean like a date?
Yeah.
I mean. you know. if you want
to name it. sure.
I mean. just for clarification
purposes.
Of course. Yeah.
Ok.
Ok. Yeah. I'll see you
on Tuesday.
Tuesday it is.
Goodnight. Professor.
Goodnight. Detective.
Partners.
The most famous fictional
detective of all time.
Sherlock Holmes.
he had two partners.
One. Doctor Watson. who we all
know is the complete opposite
of Sherlock in every single way.
but then Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
wanted to give the great
detective another partner.
This time an academic.
James Moriarty.
He was also known as Sherlock's
arch enemy.
I'm going to read you
guys something.
"A criminal strain
ran in his blood.
"which. instead
of being modified.
"was increased and rendered
infinitely more dangerous
"by his extraordinary
mental powers."
Extraordinary mental powers.
Who else does that
remind you of?
Anybody take a guess?
Mr. Newman.
Sherlock Holmes?
Exactly.
Sherlock Holmes.
Let me show you guys this.
This was an etching from the
original printing of the book.
Holmes. Moriarty.
How similar do they look. right?
So Moriarty was the second
partner of Holmes.
He was also his mirror image.
so similar yet so different.
Yeah.
Alright. looks like time is up
so your essays
on the necessity of a partner
in detective fiction
are due in a week. everybody.
Have a great day.
Bye.
What's up. Newman?
How's it going. Bud?
- Good. how are you?
- Good.
- Good to see you.
- You too.
Hey. Blake.
How's it going?
Good. Professor.
Busy. you know.
running the book store.
Right. Right.
Oh. carpel tunnel?
Yeah. my physical therapist
gave me this.
Writing does a number
on my tendons.
So you're writing.
That's good.
Yeah. Yeah. actually Bud's been
sort of mentoring me
on my novel.
Oh. mentoring is a bit of
an exaggeration.
Oh. come on. You're the one
who told me
to switch from literary
fiction to thriller.
I did do that.
And he read three drafts.
That's also true.
Mentoring. yeah.
And so I wanted you to be
some of the first to hear
I just got a publishing offer.
Woah. nice!
Blake. that's wonderful!
Congratulations!
Hey guys. I'm missing the party?
[laughs]
- Hey. Dad.
- Hey. cutie.
How are you?
Great.
Dad. you remember Blake Newman?
How can I forget?
He set up my reading
for Tuesday night.
We were just celebrating
the fact that Blake
just sold his first novel.
Oh. that's wonderful.
Who's the publisher?
Uh. Dain Press.
they're smaller but...
Oh. no. I know them well.
Very respectable.
What's it called?
Uh. Murder While I Smile.
It's a quote from Shakespeare.
Shakespeare. Richard III.
I know it well.
Crime fiction. huh?
Oh. you bet. sir.
And my dad was a huge
fan of yours.
He introduced me to
the Atticus Keller books.
[laughs]
Well. I'm sure that
he's quite proud now
that you're being published.
I'm sure he would be.
He passed away just over
a year ago.
Sorry. Blake.
That's ok.
It's just... he'll never get
to read my novel. you know?
Well. can I read it?
Are you serious?
Yeah. I just happen to have
a copy.
Oh. yeah...
Bud?
I'll get you a fresh one.
You better.
Great. Thanks.
I'll read it tonight.
Well. he seems like
a wonderful young man.
Yeah.
Yeah. he's in my modern
novel seminar.
Studying to get his PhD in
and then he left
a couple years ago
to focus on writing.
Seems to have paid off.
It has. yeah.
I'm going to meet that writer.
Ella at her rental
so I will talk to you later.
You bet.
Love you.
Love you too. hon.
Wow. Ella. this is
a lovely rental.
How long do you have it for?
A week.
It was a great deal.
Yeah.
So. I have to get my fan girl
moment out of the way.
I've read everything
your dad's written.
Oh. me too.
You know. he's reading from
his new Atticus Keller book
tomorrow night at
a local book store.
Oh. I know.
I arranged this trip to coincide
with that.
Ah.
But don't worry.
I didn't ask to interview you
because you're his daughter.
Ok.
You want some tea?
Yeah. yeah.
That would be great.
I'd love some.
Is mint tea ok?
Yeah. that's fine. thank you.
So. is this your first book?
Yeah. I was an English major
in college.
What college did you go to?
Oh. uh. a little school
back east.
Should we get started?
Sure. Sure.
You know. I can't help
but ask you
what made you want to write
about this?
Well. a few months ago I saw it
featured on that show
We Know Whodunnit.
Oh.
Have you seen it?
Yeah.
Yeah. Pretty over the top.
Mmm.
But as an aspiring writer
I thought it was powerful
that writing would lead
to murder.
You don't mind if I record this.
do you?
Sure. go ahead.
[clears throat]
Can you tell me about the
Mark Twain incident with Nicole?
Yeah. sure. I'll tell you
what I know.
Mac was a Twain scholar
and Nicole had found
what seemed to be an early draft
of the initial chapters
of Huck Finn at an estate sale.
I believe.
But she wasn't a Twain Scholar?
No. no. she wasn't.
She taught creative writing.
But those chapters could have
gotten a lucrative book deal
for anyone.
Yeah.
If they had been real.
True.
[laughs]
Uh. so why did Mac need them
so desperately?
Mac was up for tenure
at the college
and he needed to publish or
he would lose his position.
And this all came out in a fight
which you witnessed?
Yes...
Amy: It was pretty crazy.
I mean. they were both
very upset.
I didn't hear exactly
what was said
but Mac did come to me
afterwards and he said
that he lost his temper
over the Huck Finn chapters.
And had Mac and Nicole had
a history of being at odds?
No. quite the contrary.
They were close.
Did you ever think that
he'd be capable
of doing something like this?
No.
Never.
You know. I tend to believe
you just based on your work
with the Garrison
Police Department.
[laughs]
Well...
But for full disclosure
I am writing this book
because I believe Mac McKinnon
is innocent.
I'm glad I'm not the only one
that feels that way.
Can I ask you what makes
you think he's innocent?
Oh. um... it's just a feeling.
Feeling based on what?
I should probably keep that
confidential for the moment.
Oh. sure. Sure.
Uh. so have you spoken to Mac?
He won't meet with me.
Oh. well um. I could try
to reach out to him.
see if I could change that if-
Yeah. that'd be terrific!
Yeah?
Ok. well I should do it now
before I forget.
I'll just um. contact
the correctional facility.
see what happens. right?
Well. thanks for talking to me.
- Yeah.
Thank you.
Uh. who are you talking to next?
Uh. Howard Clawson.
He was the detective on the Ford
case but he's retired.
Yeah. I know him.
Uh. look.
This might seem a little weird
but would you mind
if I tagged along?
Sure.
Yeah?
Oh. hey. Mr. Clawson.
Enjoying your retirement. I see.
Technically I'm semi-retired.
I do private security now.
Amy Winslow.
Did I hear you helped
Travis Burke a time or two?
I did a little consulting.
Where were you
when I was on the job?
[laughs]
Thank you so much for talking
to me. Howard.
You don't mind if I record this.
do you?
No. go for it.
So um. how did you get assigned
to the case?
Dwight Merrill. Nicole's
husband. came into the station.
Dwight and Nicole
were separated.
she was a no-show
at the appointment
with their divorce mediator.
Howard: When I called her.
no answer.
I called the department
in Elmstead.
She missed her morning classes.
He wanted me to file a
missing-persons report.
I suggested he look
for her at home.
He asked me to come along.
If she was there he didn't
want to get in trouble
with the mediation.
since he moved out.
And that's when you found her?
Yeah. in bed.
Paramedics thought heart attack.
She had no family history
of heart disease
so I ran a tox screen
and it was strychnine.
We looked for how it might
have gotten into her.
Howard: We found traces
of the poison
on the valve of her asthma
inhaler canister.
So someone injected it
into her canister?
That's right.
Did you consider Dwight Merrill
as a suspect?
Of course.
But he had an alibi.
He was at his brother's house
about an hour away.
And what lead you
to focus on Mac?
Well. we heard about that fight.
How desperate McKinnon
was for those papers.
Save his career.
So we went to question the guy
who wanted them.
He wasn't home but his wife
let us in.
How long after Nicole's murder
did you do this?
Three days.
Three days. Wow.
you worked fast.
That's the way to close
a murder case.
Howard: McKinnon wasn't home.
but she let us look around.
I asked her to open the safe
in his office.
The key was right on top.
We found the book chapters
and a bottle of strychnine.
Open and shut.
But Mac didn't confess.
I mean. he didn't even take
the plea deal.
We didn't need it.
We got a conviction.
And you didn't think that maybe
he could have been framed?
Are you trying to reopen
this case?
No. No. not at all.
I was just um...
Listen clearly.
That was a solid conviction.
Of course.
You know. I think I'm late
for an appointment.
I have to cut this short.
Well. thank you for your time.
Yeah.
Have a good day.
You too.
Sorry. Ella.
Are you kidding?
He was so defensive.
It was like he was
hiding something.
That will be great for the book.
Huh.
Hey. Chuck.
- Hey. guys.
- Hey. hey.
Hey.
[knocking]
Like what you've done
with the place.
Yeah.
You mean nothing?
You can't get enough of us.
hey Howard?
Thought I'd stop by. you know.
Yeah. how are you?
How're things?
I've been better. honestly.
Uh. can we talk?
Yeah. of course.
Have a seat.
Thank you.
What's on your mind?
Well. I just got done talking
with your consultant.
My consultant?
Oh. you mean Professor Winslow?
Yeah. whatever her title is.
She doesn't carry
a badge though.
No. she doesn't.
Look. I know she's
a smart cookie
but um. she's teamed up
with a young book writer
and they're clearly trying
to reopen a murder case
I closed two years ago.
You mean the Nicole Ford murder?
You knew she was up to this?
Well. no. I knew she was talking
to a writer but that's all.
That's not all.
They're working together.
trying to make this look like
a bad conviction.
Ok.
Well. Howard. as you just said
she's a smart person
and if she feels like there's a
reason to look into this case...
Well. there isn't.
I mean. I just told you.
it's rock solid.
Well. if it's rock solid
then you've got nothing
to worry about. right?
[phone ringing]
I'm sorry.
I gotta grab this.
Howard. it's always good
to see you.
Yeah. you too.
Don't be a stranger.
- Yeah.
- Alright.
Hey.
Were your ears burning?
Let me guess.
Howard Clawson called you.
Travis: Not a call. he actually
came down to the station.
Are you teaming up
with that writer?
No. I just tagged along
for the interview
with Howard Clawson.
I was trying to get her
to trust me
and then he got all defensive.
Alright. Amy. you have to
understand his perspective.
He has a solid conviction.
Ok. well if it was
a solid conviction
then he wouldn't mind me asking
a few questions to confirm it.
[message alert]
Hey. Travis?
It's an important call.
I'll call you back later.
Bye.
Operator: Washington State
Eastern Correctional Facility.
Do you accept the charges?
Yes.
Mac?
Amy. hi.
Amy: Hey. Thanks
for calling me back.
Yeah. sure.
Uh. look. I gotta tell you
I'm a little surprised
to hear from you.
Look. I know this may seem like
it's out of the blue
but I spoke to a woman today
named Ella Quincy.
Yeah. she sent me some messages.
Amy: Yeah. She said
you wouldn't talk to her.
Listen. Amy. um...
I get a lot of requests
over the last couple of years.
You know. writers. journalists.
They say they wanna
tell my story
but all they wanna do
is to hear my story.
Ok. I understand that
but this is not that.
She's writing a book that takes
another look at what happened.
What do you mean. another look?
She believes you're innocent
and I think she has a way
to prove it.
What is it?
Amy: I don't know.
But I'm gonna find out.
[door closes]
Amy: Hey. it's me.
Kitchen.
A pipe burst at Holly's and
she's closed and I need coffee.
Oh. yeah.
Hi. Help yourself.
Thanks. Dad.
Yeah.
So I am going to Warrenville
today to talk to Mac.
Are you going with
that young writer?
Who Ella? Uh. no.
Oh. that was a loaded reply.
Well. it's just I don't really
know what her agenda is.
Meaning?
Meaning she's so sure
that Mac is innocent
but she won't tell me how.
Well. I mean.
young writers. they...
they sometimes feel that someone
might take their ideas.
I'm not.
I'm just trying to get
an innocent man out of jail.
Which you're very good at.
as I recall.
[chuckling]
Oh. what is this?
Blake's manuscript?
Mmmhmm.
Wow. you're like halfway done.
Yeah. I was up past midnight.
The kid knows how to craft out
a mystery.
Mmm.
I gotta go.
See you tonight.
Ok.
- Love you.
[buzzer]
Go to booth 3. Mac.
Hello. Amy.
You look great.
Hey. Thanks. Mac.
You look uh...
Incarcerated.
[laughs]
I really appreciate
you coming down here.
I know you're very busy.
Yeah. I just wanted to talk
to you a little bit more
about what we spoke
about yesterday.
That I'm innocent.
I am. I swear to you.
I... I didn't kill Nicole.
I know.
Listen. Ella says
she can prove it.
But here's the thing.
she's not telling me how.
So here's what I think.
I think that we use the fact
that you won't speak to her
to our advantage.
How so?
We offer her an exclusive
interview
in exchange for
that information.
That's a great idea.
Let's do it.
Yeah? Ok.
I also wanted to talk to you
about the detective
that arrested you.
Howard Clawson.
What about him?
Did you ever have
any previous dealings
with him before this case?
No.
My first meeting with this man
was when he arrested me.
You think you can get him
to take another look?
No. unfortunately he retired
a year ago.
However. I think that
I can get Travis
to take a look-
um. sorry. Detective Burke.
He's Clawson's replacement.
I've actually helped him
solve some cases.
Really?
Yeah.
Well. that is encouraging.
Yeah. I'll talk to him.
I really appreciate that.
Thank you.
No worries.
I'm guessing Linda hasn't been
around in a while.
How did you know?
Well. you told me once
she doesn't really like
you with a beard.
Right.
Yeah. she's been...
she's been very busy.
Well. hang tough.
I'm gonna see what I can do. ok?
Yeah. Thanks.
Voicemail: Hi. you've reached
Ella Quincy.
Please leave me a message.
Hey. Ella. this is Amy Winslow.
Look. Mac's willing to talk
but he has a condition. ok?
Give me a call.
Thanks. Bye.
So apparently someone wants me
to stay away from the Ford case.
Who knew you were
going up there?
Just my dad. Mac.
and the prison staff.
Alright. I'm gonna call
up there.
have them go over the security
camera footage.
I will also have our new
forensics tech analyze this.
Ok. good.
Meanwhile. I want you to stay
away from the Ford case.
What? Are you serious?
If any-
If anything I should keep
pursuing this.
And so should you.
Amy. it's closed.
It's closed.
And I have to respect that.
And so should you.
Yeah?
Yeah. I-I hear you.
[knocking]
Amy.
Hi. Linda.
I was just wondering. do you
have a minute to talk?
That writer was here
this morning.
Is this about that?
Uh. about Mac. you mean?
Yeah.
I'm sorry. I have a physical
therapy client coming at 3:00.
You know what?
This will only take a second.
I promise.
Of course.
Please. come in.
Great. Thank you.
So. what do you wanna ask me?
Uh. well I was hoping
that maybe you could
fill in some blanks for me
about what happened.
Specifically. did Mac ever
express any animosity
towards Nicole?
No. Never.
But you did know about the fight
over the Huck Finn chapters.
right?
No.
Until the police told me.
Really?
That seems a little strange.
Why do you think that Mac
wouldn't mention that to you?
I really don't know.
Were you friends with Nicole?
We would have Nicole
and Dwight over for dinner.
they would do the same with us.
But you were not here the night
she was murdered. right?
You were out of town?
I was. On a yoga retreat.
Right. Yeah.
Uh. what was the name of
that place. again?
Sky Mountain.
Sky Mountain. right.
You know. I really should be
getting ready for my client.
Oh. uh. yeah.
No worries.
I love all these pictures
you've got here.
It's great.
They're everywhere.
But I can't help but notice
Mac's not in any of them.
Look. I've worked very hard
over the last two years
to put all of this behind me
and now you and this woman
want me to dredge it
all up again.
For what?
Look. Linda.
There is a question as
to Mac's guilt. that's all.
From whom?
Not the police.
Well. not yet. but-
I really think you should leave.
Linda-
Now.
[knocking]
- Hey.
Oh. the face of consternation.
What's up?
Sky Mountain.
- In Rimrock?
- Mmmhmm.
Yeah. I went there
a couple years ago.
You went on a yoga retreat?
It was a fitness boot camp.
Oh.
It's a full service facility.
They house all kinds
of programs.
Well. Linda. Mac McKinnon's
wife. she went there-
or. she said she did.
She was there the night
Nicole Ford was murdered.
That's why she couldn't
alibi Mac.
So the consternation's about...
Well. the Sky Mountain website
doesn't exist.
That's because it closed
about a year ago.
[chuckles]
Of course it did.
Hi again.
Hi.
I spoke to Linda McKinnon.
I thought you said you
would leave that alone.
Well. you asked me
to leave it alone
and I said I heard you. so
technically that's accurate.
Hmm.
That dog's not gonna hunt. Amy.
Ok. well maybe this dog will.
I found out where Linda's
retreat was.
Sky Mountain. which conveniently
closed about a year ago.
But it was in Rimrock which is
only 20 minutes away from here.
I mean. that's not much
of a retreat.
That's subjective.
Ok.
In addition. to her not going
to visit Mac in prison?
There's also no photos of him
anywhere in the house.
I was there. I was looking.
Huh.
I found them for filing.
Did you ask her why?
Well. yeah.
She said she was trying
to put it behind her.
That's a reasonable answer.
Travis.
Amy.
Forgive me for the cliché
but where there's smoke
there's fire.
Yeah. but I don't smell
any smoke.
Now that is subjective.
What about the note on my car?
Whoever it was. was smart enough
to hide his face
from the camera.
Hmm.
Still staying out of it?
Yeah. alright. We'll talk about
this at dinner tonight.
Ok.
See you at the book store.
- Bye.
Hey.
Thank you.
- Hey.
Sorry I'm late. I was just-
You were changing.
It's good.
Thank you.
Hey. question for you.
Who is that person
that Bud is talking to?
Oh. uh. that's Ella Quincy.
She's the one who's doing
the book on Mac.
That's Ella Quincy.
Alright.
Well. it's a good turnout
for your dad. huh?
Yeah. it definitely is.
A lot of-
Oh!
Do you see the guy
that just walked in?
Yeah.
That's Dwight Merrill.
That's Nicole Ford's husband.
Hmm.
Which is strange.
Why is it strange?
I've just... never seen him
at one of my dad's book
readings before.
So maybe he's a new fan.
like me.
Hmm...
Amy?
I'll be right back.
What're you-
I'm just gonna go and say hello.
What are you doing?
Hey. Dr. Merrill.
How are you?
Um. I don't know
if you remember me.
I'm Amy Winslow.
I worked with Nicole.
Right. of course.
Please. call me Dwight.
Professor.
Call me Amy.
Ok.
I didn't know you were
one of my dad's fans.
Well. who doesn't love
Atticus Keller?
What's your favourite book?
Uh...
Wait. wait. wait. don't tell me.
"Broken Nine Pins".
You guessed it.
Mmm. I figured.
[clears throat]
Excuse me. everyone.
If you wouldn't mind
taking your seats
we're gonna be beginning
momentarily here.
We'll talk later.
Yeah.
Hey.
So?
So he says he's a fan
of my dad's.
There you go.
His favourite book
is "Broken Nine Pins".
I haven't read that one.
'Cause it's not a real book.
I just want to thank you all
so much for being here.
You know. I start my east coast
book tour next week
but I gotta say nothing beats
reading in front of
my home-town crowd.
So uh. a special thanks to
Blundel Books for hosting.
[applause]
I'm going to start by
reading a bit
and then we can do a Q and A.
Does that sound good?
Yeah? Ok.
"The Waving Flame".
[cheering]
Chapter one.
"It had been six months
since Atticus Keller
"felt the barrel of a gun
against the back of his head.
"He hadn't missed it.
"If you shoot me". Atticus said.
"you'll never find out
where the money is."
So. did your dad used to read
to you when you were a kid?
[laughs]
Yeah. Every night.
It's funny. even after I learned
how to read myself
I'd still beg him to do it
for me.
I bet. 'cause he's awesome.
Amy. that was fantastic.
Look at the turnout. huh?
Yeah. it was great.
Oh. Blake. do you know
Travis Burke?
Of course I do.
This guy's a huge
crime fiction fan.
This is where I buy my books.
I am delighted to hear it.
Mmmhmm.
Oh. Blake. listen.
There is this young writer
that I'd love for you to meet.
Ella!
Ella. can you come here
for a minute?
Ella Quincy. Blake Newman.
Blake just sold his
first crime novel.
Yay.
And Ella is writing her
first true crime book.
Yeah. she's here
interviewing people
about the Nicole Ford case
and then I remembered
you studied with Nicole.
A few classes. yeah.
Sorry. what's your name again?
Blake Newman.
What a great name
for a crime writer.
Thank you.
So uh. do you have a publisher
figured out. or...
Oh. not yet. no.
Oh. well I'd be uh. happy to let
you know how I made it happen.
This is the best way
to reach me.
Great. Thanks.
Excuse me. I gotta go.
go cover the register.
Bye. Blake.
Oh. uh. Ella?
I spoke to Mac and he would love
to speak with you
as long as you're willing
to share what it is
that you know that makes you
so sure he's innocent.
Look. can we talk
about this tomorrow?
I really should get this signed.
Yeah. sure.
Uh. that was weird.
Yeah. maybe she doesn't have
anything to offer after all.
Maybe.
Are you hungry?
Mmm. I thought you would
never ask.
[laughing]
Hey. Travis. is that...
Howard!
Travis.
And the professor.
What're you doing here. Howard?
I'm just out minding
my own business.
No. you're not.
You're tailing me.
Just like you followed me
to the prison.
I'm late.
Hey. Let me ask you
a question.
Why did you leave that note?
What note?
The note that I'm having
the forensic tech analyze
down at the station.
That note.
What if I did leave a note?
Is that a crime?
No. Howard. but stalking is.
The only crime in this situation
is murder.
The one Mac McKinnon committed.
I put a killer away.
You're trying to get him out.
Listen.
I don't want you going near
Professor Winslow
unless she initiates contact.
Is that clear?
Crystal.
Good.
Good Howard.
Mmmhmm.
[exhales]
You know I could have handled
myself there.
I know. but I wanted to.
Well. thank you.
Let's go eat.
So why do you think that Howard
would want this case left alone?
Thank you.
I don't know.
I'd have to. you know.
look at the case file.
You mean we would have to read
the case file.
Is that what I mean?
Yeah. I think it is.
You seem to have forgotten
that I make a living
off of helping people clarify
meaning. Detective.
So I don't think you want to
questioned me.
And I think you forgot.
Professor.
that I make a living off
of questioning people.
[laughs]
Touché. Touché.
Uh. this is uh...
this is nice.
Hey. guys.
[laughs]
Hey. Graham.
Hey. Dad.
What're you doing here?
It looks like the three of us
had the same idea.
[laughing]
You guys get a table?
I'm famished.
We do. actually.
We just got the text
our table is ready so-
Our table's ready.
We'll squeeze you in.
Yeah. Ok.
Here's your purse.
- The Three Musketeers.
- Thanks. Dad.
Come on. hon.
Uh... huh.
[knocking]
Amy.
Hey. I was just in the area
and I thought I'd stop by
to see if you had thought any
more about Mac's proposal.
Well. it's a fair trade.
But I have some other avenues
I wanted to pursue first.
So maybe we could get back to it
in a few days?
Yeah.
Yeah. of course.
Uh. also I just wanted to talk
to you for a minute.
Um. I have some information
I think you might find valuable
about the case.
Of course. Come on in.
Ok. thanks.
Mmm. do I smell
fresh-brewed coffee?
You want a cup?
I would love a cup. yes.
Thank you.
Have a seat.
Thanks.
I'll be right back.
Oh. how do you take it?
Um. do you have any oat milk?
Uh. I'll check.
Is almond milk ok?
♪ ♪
Amy?
Uh. yeah. yeah.
Almond milk is fine.
Here you go.
Thank you.
I needed this.
So. the case?
Oh. uh. yes.
Of course.
Let's see.
I just wanted to stop by
and show you this.
It was on my car yesterday.
It's very clear that someone
doesn't want me
poking around the case.
Who?
I don't know.
I can't be sure.
I just wanted to show you this
because I think that
you should be careful.
Killings... professor. plural.
[ringing]
Hey Amy. how are you?
There was another murder
and it was a lot like Nicole's.
There was another murder?
What do you mean. a lot like?
Jill Ives. this professor from
Grover College. was found-
thank you.
Was found dead in her home.
They thought it was
a heart attack
but they later on found out
it was strychnine
from her essential
oils diffuser.
When was this?
Five years ago.
Are you thinking that Mac
is a serial killer?
No. No. it couldn't
have been Mac.
Jill Ives was killed
the same day
that Mac and I gave a lecture
together in San Francisco.
Right. And she was killed
in New Windsor. Oregon.
I'm reading about it right now.
Travis. you have to pursue this.
I'm surprised you're not driving
to New Windsor yourself
right now.
Well. I would be but I've got
a class to teach right now.
Alright. you know what?
I'm gonna call
the New Windsor P.D.
I'm gonna talk to them.
ask them some questions.
and I might even head
down there.
Will you just wait until my last
class and then I can join you?
Thank you.
I'm gonna ask you to stand down.
Professor.
I think it might be better
cop to cop
but I promise I will
fill you in.
Ok. well I'm gonna hold you
to that promise.
I'll talk to you later.
It was a few years ago but
I remember that conference.
We were there.
So there is no way that Mac
could have done it.
Wow.
Same date?
Yes.
Did Mac or Nicole know
Jill Ives?
I don't know.
I think there's some old files
in storage in the basement.
Probably need to check those out
as soon as I can.
see if there's any connection.
Detective Pool?
Hey. Detective Burke?
Call me Travis.
Call me Frank.
Hey. thank you for meeting
me here.
Yeah. of course.
So I wasn't able to tell you
on the phone
but we lost Bill Carlyle.
the detective working the case.
last year.
Oh. I'm sorry.
There weren't many unsolved
cases on Bill's watch.
but this was one.
I made you a copy.
Thanks. Frank.
So Jill Ives was 52 years old.
ruled cardiac arrest.
But her daughter asked
for an autopsy.
It took a few weeks
but the results proved
that Ives had been poisoned.
Really?
That's when Bill was assigned.
Fortunately Ives' home had been
pretty much untouched
and Bill was able to find traces
of strychnine
in the essential oils diffuser.
Alright. that's good.
Yeah. I've got something better.
I got in touch with
Camilla Heinz-Clark.
she's the chairperson
at Ives' department here
and she's willing to talk.
Right now?
Right now.
That is good news.
Let's do it.
So the brilliance of what
Dorothy Sayers does
is she combines
both a detective story
and a love story.
and she does so seamlessly.
starting with this
opening sentence.
Bud. can you read?
“There were crimson roses
on the bench.
"they looked like splashes
of blood.”
Ooh. alright.
And we're off.
Please continue.
“The judge was an old man.
"So old he seemed
to have outlived time
"and change and death.”
Professor Heinz-Clark.
we appreciate you taking
the time to meet with us today.
Of course.
It was very upsetting.
what happened.
All the more so that the killer
was never found.
Well. maybe we can do something
about that.
Where shall I begin?
Why don't you begin by telling
me everything you remember
about that time. especially
I think pertaining to Jill?
There's no detail
that's too small.
Understood.
It was a turbulent period.
even before Jill's death.
It was coming up on the end
of the school year.
graduation looming.
Jill came to me with concerns.
What were her concerns?
She believed that
one of her students
was guilty of plagiarism.
An extremely serious offence.
Sure.
Do you remember
the student's name?
Jill was reticent to say
their name but...
It sounds like you might have
an idea of who it was.
I thought it was Jill's
star pupil. Robby Hearst.
He had a short story
about an old lawnmower
that was shortlisted for the
prestigious literary quarterly.
"The Portal".
A lawnmower?
Yes. very inventive.
It didn't make it
into The Portal.
but it was published in our own
literary magazine.
Do you have a copy of it?
Follow me.
It's around here somewhere.
Hey. Professor. I got
a question for you.
Do you know somebody by
the name of Evan McKinnon?
He goes by Mac.
No.
How about a woman named
Nicole Ford?
No. I don't believe so.
How about Ella Quincy?
Has a young lady named Ella
Quincy reached out to you?
Uh. no.
But that name rings a bell
for some reason.
And um. did you or Professor
Ives ever have any dealings
at Elmstead College?
I didn't.
I don't know about Jill.
honestly.
Oh. here it is.
You got it?
Yeah.
Look at that.
So did anybody ever deal
with Robby Hearst
about the plagiarism charges?
No. he wasn't a student of mine
and he graduated shortly after
Jill's death.
Hmm.
Ok. And this is gonna sound
like a weird question
but did Jill have any enemies?
Certainly not.
Jill was beloved.
Ok.
Thanks for this.
You're welcome.
Thank you for your time.
Ok.
[door slams]
Hello?
[door slam]
[crash]
Ow!
Hit it. Professor?
What a mess.
Why would somebody do this?
I don't know.
but maybe I'll find the answer
in here somewhere.
As long as you're ok?
Yeah. I'm fine.
Managed to avoid
the shelves altogether
and thankfully the boxes that
did land weren't that heavy.
So I found Professor McKinnon's
file box
but Professor Ford's box
is gone.
Are you sure?
I'm the one who packed
their offices.
I know where I put them.
Ok.
Alright.
Thanks.
Holy cow. Amy. that happened in
the basement of the university?
- Yeah.
- Are you alright?
Yeah. I'm fine.
The point is whomever it was
that took Nicole's files
also probably would have taken
Mac's files had I not walked in
and caught him in
the middle of it.
Hold on. we don't know that.
I mean. Nicole's file.
maybe it just got lost.
Oh. come on. Travis.
It's not just a coincidence. ok?
Neither is the fact
that Jill Ives and Nicole
were killed in much
the same way.
It makes it possible.
I'll give you that.
What we're missing is something
that connects Jill and Nicole.
And we got a lot of stuff
to dig through.
so let's divide and conquer.
Ok. ok.
You know. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
once said that
"it has long been an axiom
of mine
"that the little things are
infinitely the most important".
Well. Sir Arthur and I are
on the same page.
[small laugh]
Hmm. Here's a little
thing up front.
What've you got?
They list Jill Ives' doctor but
they also list her therapist.
Dwight Merrill.
That's Nicole Ford's husband.
You know. the guy
from the reading?
Hold on a second.
She's driving two hours
to see her therapist?
No. his office is listed
in New Windsor.
Oh. thank you.
This guy. He's-ah.
thank you so much.
Oh. I didn't realize
how hungry I was.
[laughs]
Look at that bite.
Mmm. So good.
Hey.
Do you know what
we're missing right now?
What?
Your dad.
[laughs]
That is not funny.
It's a little funny.
[car beep]
So you know that rule when
you're reading a mystery novel.
never read the ending first?
Yeah?
I should have read
the ending first.
What?
Ella Quincy went
to Grover College?
She lied to you.
She was a work study student
for Jill Ives in her office.
Ella told me she watched
that horrible show
that we watched together.
Um. We Know Whodunnit.
She saw it a few months ago
and that lightbulb
must have went off.
hey I can write a book
connecting these two murders.
At any rate it's time
to talk to Ella.
Voicemail: Hi. you've reached
Ella Quincy.
Please leave me a message.
Voice mail.
Hey. Ella. it's Amy Winslow.
Could you just give me
a call back?
Thank you. Bye.
Well... I need to talk
to Dwight Merrill tomorrow.
So you're taking this seriously?
Amy. I just drove to Oregon
and back.
Ok. then looks like
we're talking to Dwight.
You know. Travis said
it is possible
that the two murders
are connected.
Meaning the same killer.
Yeah. and if true that would
mean that Mac is innocent.
Exactly.
Who knows?
Anyway. how was
your day yesterday?
Uh. are you finished-
are you finished with that?
Yeah. sure.
You want some help?
No. no. no.
Alright. thanks.
So I uh. I finished
"Murder While I Smile."
Blake's novel?
- Yep.
- Yeah?
How was it?
I didn't love the ending.
No?
No. he took the easy way out.
Are you gonna tell him?
I already did.
He took copious notes.
Ok. that's good.
Yeah.
Wanna read it?
Yeah. I'd love to read it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Here ya go.
Great.
Yeah.
Oh. Dad I gotta to go.
I'm late to meet Travis.
Oh. ok. ok.
Thank you for lunch.
Okay. sweetie.
- Bye.
- Have fun.
- Hey.
What is that?
This is Howard's case file
on Nicole's murder.
You know. the guy never even
checked Nicole's texts.
or email records?
Really?
Yeah.
You hear from Ella?
Uh. no. but we can stop by
there later.
Thanks.
So uh-
He's just over there.
Uh. Dwight.
Amy.
Hey.
Hi.
My name is Detective
Travis Burke.
I'm with the Garrison
Police Department.
Professor Winslow here.
she's been a consultant
to the police department.
and I was hoping that I could
ask you a few questions
about a patient of yours.
Well. I'm sure you know about
doctor patient confidentiality.
This one's dead. so it shouldn't
be an issue.
Can we talk?
So how can I help?
Well. uh. where were you
practising five years ago?
New Windsor. Oregon. Why?
Did you have a patient named
Jill Ives?
Well. clearly you know I did.
How long were you treating
her for?
About three years.
Until...
Travis: Until she died.
That's right.
What were you treating her for?
Depression after the death
of her husband.
Do you know how she died?
To be honest there was a lot
going on back then.
and Nicole and I were
getting married.
and I was working to move
my practise here.
So you don't know how she died?
She was poisoned
with strychnine.
Somebody put it into a...
- A diffuser.
Bill Carlyle. a detective who
was investigating Jill's murder.
he didn't mention that to you?
Because Detective Carlyle
told us that he did
mention it to you.
Uh...
Yes. actually um... yeah.
Yes. he did.
And so then when the detective
was investigating
your wife's murder you didn't
think to mention
that you'd seen a very similar
kind of killing?
Mac McKinnon had been arrested
and I didn't see the point
in mentioning something that
to me felt like a coincidence.
Right. Because you were
getting divorced. anyway.
So it's convenient. right?
Detective. I realize you are
trying to provoke me
but I am telling you the truth.
Why did you and Nicole split up?
Because she didn't
love me anymore.
Anyway. if there's nothing else.
I have a client that
I need to prepare for.
Actually. there
is something else.
You came to my dad's reading
the other night
but you left before he even
got started.
Why?
Because I got a call
from a client in distress.
I'm sorry that I missed it.
Now. if there's nothing else.
Well. he might have had
a client that night
but he lied to me 100 percent.
Broken Nine Pins. I remember.
Speaking of lying.
that was a nice bluff.
Carlyle telling us
about the diffuser.
Yeah.
I figured he didn't know Carlyle
was no longer with us.
Hey. was Nicole wealthy?
I didn't know much about
her financial situation.
Why? Are you thinking
that could be a motive?
Well. no.
She wants a divorce. right?
So maybe it has nothing to do
with Jill Ives' murder
but maybe he thinks
it's a clever way
to bump off his wife
and not get caught.
Maybe.
Still no call from Ella.
[knocking]
[door rattles]
Amy. come on.
She's dead.
[radio chatter]
Hey.
Are you ok?
Yeah.
I just feel like maybe we should
have warned her or something.
you know?
Well. Amy. we're not psychics.
You couldn't have known.
You're right.
Did you find her recorder.
notebook. anything?
No. No computer. either.
I did find this stuck in
the cushions of the couch.
Howard's business card.
Howard did tell us that he was
doing private security
but I never saw him
give her a card.
No?
I'm gonna have to have
a conversation with him
after we canvass
the neighbourhood.
Ok.
I have an early class tomorrow
so I'll just talk to you after.
Of course.
Goodnight.
Goodnight. Amy.
Thank you.
[knocking]
Oh. hey Blake. come on in.
I just wanted to say
how much I appreciate
your dad reading
"Murder While I Smile".
Oh. yeah. well he's
pretty great.
His feedback was invaluable.
Good.
Oh. speaking of which.
he passed this along to me.
So I'd be happy to give you
my feedback if you'd like.
That'd be amazing.
Yeah?
Alright. great.
Listen. uh. I have a class to go
to now but I'll be in touch.
- Ok.
Thanks again.
Bye. Have a good day.
Amy. hey.
Oh. hey.
Hey. I need to talk to you
about Ella Quincy.
Ok. what about her?
I met up with her yesterday and
she asked me several questions
about Mac and Nicole.
And about you.
About me?
What-what about me?
She wanted to know
if she could trust you.
I said yes and then I left.
Hey. Bud. I think we need to
call Travis and tell him this.
Why?
Because Travis and I found Ella
last night and um...
she had been killed.
What?
[doorbell rings]
I already bought my Girl Scout
cookies for the season.
That's very funny.
Hey. where were you last night?
Here. watching basketball.
Can anybody verify that?
I live alone.
Let me ask you this.
Where was the last time
you saw Ella Quincy?
Here.
And her pal. the professor.
was with her.
See. that's interesting.
because then it makes me wonder
when you gave her
your business card.
Fine.
She called me a couple
nights ago. invited me over.
Said she was interested
in hiring me as security.
Did she tell you why?
No.
When I got there to talk money
she was quickly uninterested.
And so you didn't see her
last night?
Why?
What's going on. Burke?
Ella Quincy was murdered
last night.
What. are you trying
to put that on me?
You want to talk to me again.
you'll do it with
my attorney present.
Have a good day.
So Michael Chabon is weaving
together an alternate history.
One of religious meditation
and a who done it
in this amazing book The
Yiddish Policeman's Union.
Union.
But the word "union"
is definitely a pun
because I think that at
the heart of this story
it's really just about
a marriage.
Alright. everybody.
have a good day.
Bud?
- Just.
- Yeah.
Ok.
Hey.
So the coroner just called me.
Ella was strangled sometime
between 7:00 and 8:00.
And Bud left her sometime
around 5:30.
Did you talk to Howard Clawson?
Yeah. I did.
He said he saw her
the night before.
She was interested in hiring
him for private security.
And you believe him?
I want to. I'm just-
I'm not sure.
Hey. Bud. come here for a sec.
Can I ask you to recount your
conversation with Ella for me?
Yeah. She asked me a lot of
questions about Mac and Nicole.
Yeah? What kind of questions?
She wanted to know how well
I knew them.
not very well.
Did I see their big fight
about the Twain papers?
I said yes.
And then did I suspect that
they were having an affair?
What?
Yeah. I thought
that was weird. too.
She didn't ask me that.
Alright. what else?
Then she asked me questions
about Amy
and whether or not I thought
you could keep a secret.
I said so long as you knew it
wasn't going to hurt anyone else
then of course.
That's it?
Yeah.
Alright. Thank you
for that information.
Thanks. Bud.
Hey. Were you able to go through
Mac's files?
No. I've been so busy I haven't
even had a chance.
[laughs]
What?
You were a very good student.
weren't you?
Well. I did go into education
as my profession. so...
Let me ask you something.
Hmm?
How many times were you
on the Dean's List?
What?
No. seriously.
I'd like to know.
What. in undergrad?
[laughs]
Sure.
I don't know.
- Eight.
- Eight?
So two semesters. four years...
That is every semester.
You're gonna tease me
about that now?
No. I'm gonna file that away
and tease you later.
[laughs]
Of course you would.
You're a very distracting study
partner. you know that?
I'm sorry.
I'm not trying to be.
No?
Well. if we're supposed
to get through all of this
then it's...
Hold on.
- What's that?
- What's going on?
What'd you find?
The pages are...
It's almost like they were
glued together.
Here. Does this help you?
Oh. thank you.
Let's see.
Why would these pages be
like this?
That's Mac's journal?
Yeah.
Why would that be?
Bingo.
Yeah. that's Mac and Nicole.
Looks like we gotta take a trip
to the prison.
Yep.
"He watched the crime scene
from a distance with a smile."
Wait here.
Oh. I think I'm going to have
some good feedback for him.
You're a good reader.
You take after your dad.
- Yeah?
- Yeah.
Well. thank you.
[chuckles]
[buzzer]
Hey Mac.
So this is Detective Travis
Burke who I told you about.
Mac: It's nice to meet you.
Detective.
So how can I help you?
Well. I guess we can start
by telling us
about your relationship
with Nicole.
Right.
Nicole and I were in love.
It started innocent.
Then we realized it was
something more.
We discussed divorcing
our spouses.
She told Dwight.
I waffled on telling Linda.
And then one day Nicole
gave me an ultimatum.
She says if I don't tell Linda
that she would.
We had this terrible fight.
which you saw. Amy.
I thought that fight was
over the Huck Finn chapters.
No.
I made it up on the spot
so people wouldn't suspect
what the fight was really about.
I had no idea that it was gonna
come back and ruin my life.
Why didn't you tell
Detective Clawson
about your relationship
with Nicole?
Because he would have used it
as proof that I wanted her dead.
saying that the fight was over
her wanting to break it off.
Why should we believe
that it wasn't?
You can ask Linda.
I told her the truth.
When did you tell her?
After the conviction.
So that's why she doesn't
come here and see you anymore.
Yeah.
Do you know a woman named
Jill Ives?
Not that I recall.
Is she a student?
No. she was a teacher.
Grover College.
She was murdered five years ago.
She was poisoned very similarly
to the way that Nicole was.
Five years ago?
Yeah.
What did she teach?
Creative writing.
Like Nicole.
[deep sigh]
So Nicole and Dwight
were divorcing over Mac.
Linda told me
that the four of them
used to do dinners together.
Are you thinking that Linda
and Dwight both knew
about their spouses?
If they did it would be a strong
motive for murder.
Are you reopening the case.
Detective?
We're not reopening.
we're just um... we're
taking a second look.
Your husband told us something
very interesting.
He said that he was in love
with Nicole Ford
and he said that he told you.
But did you already know that?
I... I may have suspected
something. but-
The night of the murder you
said you were at Sky Mountain.
That's 20 minutes away.
Is there anybody
that can verify that?
Didn't the detective
at the time do that?
You know that he didn't.
See. he didn't even consider
you as a suspect.
Is that what you're doing?
Jealousy?
It is a very powerful motive.
You knew Nicole's house.
It would be so easy for you to
plant evidence on your husband.
make him take the fall
for breaking your heart.
So. am I under arrest?
No.
Then I think this conversation
is over.
Goodbye.
Yeah.
Thank you for your time.
I have an idea.
You have an idea?
Yeah.
You really think she's gonna
do something?
I have a hunch.
Hmm.
[sighs]
What's the longest you've ever
sat in a car on a stake out?
You don't wanna know.
Well. actually I do wanna know.
that's why I asked.
Eighteen and a half hours.
During one shift?
Yeah.
What for?
There were four murders.
It was a serial killer.
We called him "The Wolfman"
because he only killed
during the full moon.
And we finally got a lead
on who we thought it was
and so we parked out
in front of his house
and we sat there all day
and into the night.
Did you catch him?
Yeah.
We trailed him to his next kill
and we were able
to stop him before he went
through with it.
Wow.
I bet you always remembered
that day. huh?
Yeah. but for very
different reasons.
Um. when I came home my wife
had divorce papers
waiting for me on
the kitchen table.
I'm sorry.
Divorce is ugly. Amy.
It's like my whole life
I was used to winning
and then all of a sudden I felt
like I lost. you know?
I failed.
And that feeling. you know.
it stains you
and I feel like I'm gonna drag
that into my...
Here she comes.
Travis. this is
Nicole Ford's house.
Are you ok?
No.
Look at this.
You wanna talk at the station
or in your house?
Here's where I'm confused.
What is the nature
of your relationship?
Linda and I are just friends.
So you randomly go and run
and visit your friend
right after we talk to you?
Dwight and I were both
at Sky Mountain
the night Nicole was killed.
You said that you were
with your brother.
He verified that alibi.
I lied. My brother covered
for me.
Dwight.
You know that it's illegal
to lie to a cop. right?
And it's illegal to withhold
information.
Look. Linda was just protecting
my anonymity.
I wasn't there for yoga.
The retreat was for people
with substance abuse issues.
Same goes for Dwight.
I was concerned with destroying
my reputation.
Well. can anybody prove
that you two were there?
Well. unfortunately I paid cash
but of course Linda's
verified it.
It's convenient that you're both
each other's alibis
for the night that your wife
was murdered by your husband.
I can also put you in touch
with the addiction counsellor
on staff.
Why were you at my dad's
book signing?
I told you.
Yeah. but you lied to me.
Because Broken Nine Pins?
I made that up.
That's not a real book title.
And all of your books over here.
they're so nicely alphabetized.
The W's go from Wells to Wolf.
There's no Winslow.
No Winslow here.
Anywhere.
That's clever.
Alright. I was there to see Ella
Quincy to try and dissuade her
from writing the book.
Why?
Answer the question.
Why? Did you walk to her?
I left her messages but
she hasn't called me back yet.
Where were you last night
between 7:00 and 8:00?
I was here. why?
Because that's the time
that Ella Quincy was murdered.
So Linda and Dwight
are now on the board.
Do you really think
that Linda and Dwight
are in on it together?
Well. I think I'm gonna do
some digging at Sky Mountain
and find some former employees
and see if Linda and Dwight
were there the night
they said they were.
What about you?
What're you gonna do?
I am...
I'm gonna go home
and recharge my brain.
The little grey cells?
Yes. my little grey cells.
I have an early class
to teach tomorrow. so.
Well. I wanna make sure
you get home safe
so call me when you get home.
Goodnight. Amy.
Bye.
Oh. come on.
Hi. Amy.
Got a minute?
Are you following me again?
I'd like to talk to you.
Get in the car.
Get your hand off me!
Howard!
Let go of her. Howard!
Come on. Travis.
Hey. you forgot your phone.
Are you ok?
Yeah. I'm ok.
What're you doing. Howard?
Howard.
Lawyer.
Alright. Tell me. why-
why were you after Amy?
Lawyer.
Howard. do you really wanna
spend the night in a cell?
Lawyer.
Alright.
Have it your way.
Alright. So. Howard
is lawyering up.
You know. he'd rather spend
the night in the same jail
he used to lock people up in.
[knocking]
Travis.
Hi.
Oh. hey.
Amy. this is Maria. she's our
new forensics tech.
Hi.
Amy Winslow?
Yeah.
Ah.
Travis is always talking
about you.
I'm always talking about her?
I mentioned her like once
or twice.
Ok. I get the odd mention. huh?
Alright. alright.
what've you got?
Show me.
DNA from your
victim's fingernails.
Skin and blood.
She tagged the killer
but no match in the system
so it's not a prior offender.
Alright. this is really
good work. Maria.
Nice to meet you.
Good to meet you.
And thank you.
Mmmhmm.
Alright. so?
What do you think?
Well. I was just trying
to step back
and take it all in. you know?
Ok.
We have Jill. Nicole. and Ella.
and we've been trying
to find the link between these
three different chapters. right?
What makes the novel?
[laughs]
And oddly enough I think I just-
I'm figuring it out.
That's... that's the link.
You lost me.
Literature.
That's the link that connects
these three murders.
Just stay with me. alright?
Ok. we have Jill Ives. a
creative writing professor.
who had an issue with
a plagiarizing student.
Then we have Nicole Ford. also
a creative writing professor.
who lost her life over
some chapters in a book.
Then there's Ella. a budding
writer who I think
was gonna write a book that
connects these two murders.
I mean. no wonder she didn't
wanna tell us all the details
because she wanted to pursue
it herself
and name the killer in her book.
I mean. think about it.
It's a massive best-seller.
Ok. I'm with you.
So?
Well. so I think that we need
to go back
and do what any great literary
scholar would do.
Go back to the source material.
The case books?
Yeah.
Amy. we went through
those already.
I know that. I know that.
But we need to go back again.
see if we missed anything.
See if there's anything more
that these three women
have in common.
Especially Jill and Nicole.
I want to go back
in their biographies
and see if anything overlaps.
Well. we got work to do.
Mmm.
Hold on.
Did you see this?
Mmm.
Nicole Ford was an associate
editor of The Portal.
that fancy literary magazine.
Yeah. I know the magazine.
but that's not in her bio.
I know.
I looked up a list of people
who worked on the magazine.
The Masthead.
Right.
Well. this is from a few years
ago and she's on the list.
Ok. well I think the bigger
question is did she hold
that position five years ago
when Jill Ives' star student
submitted that story about
the lawnmower?
What was his name?
"The Cuttings".
By Robby Hearst.
Right.
Huh.
This is actually pretty good.
Camilla was right.
You can tell that it's good
in like five seconds?
Well. I mean. a strong
first paragraph
is usually a promising sign.
Ok. so Nicole Ford was on
the Masthead five years ago.
So she could have read this.
Let's mine that connection.
I've got a question for you.
Yeah?
Do you think that Robby Hearst
went to Elmstead College?
I can check.
Log into my faculty access.
Alright. look up Robert Hearst.
too.
Yeah. I'm on it.
There was one. but he graduated
in 1962.
Hmm.
No.
Not our guy.
There's not been one since.
I'm gonna run down Robby Hearst
through the official channels.
Let's see what we got.
What?
Travis. I think I know
who the murderer is.
[phone ringing]
Hello?
Well. hello. Detective Burke.
How can I help you?
[knocking]
Detective. Amy.
As you can see I haven't
left town.
Hey. can we come in?
It's right through here.
Travis. Amy.
How's it going?
Hey. Blake.
I need to see your security
camera footage
from the night of
Graham's reading.
I think that one of the people
on it is a murderer.
Guys. can I ask
what this is about?
You remember the lady
that you met that night.
Ella Quincy?
Uh. yeah. Sure.
Yeah. well we just wanna see
a piece of that conversation
that you had with her
right after the reading.
More specifically.
right when I introduced you two
she made that comment
about your name
and then you gave her
your number.
Do you remember that?
Mmmhmm.
Yeah. ok.
If you could just pull
that moment up.
Keep going. keep going.
keep going... and freeze.
Ooh. that's a good angle.
Could you zoom in on that?
Uh. I'm not sure I can.
Oh. here. I can do it.
Like that.
Perfect.
Great. thank you.
Blake. could you read
that for me?
"Don't say anything.
Let's talk.
"We'll make it worth it."
Speaking of things
that you've written.
I finished your manuscript.
Here you go. you can have
that back.
And you know what's funny
is when I was reading it.
it reminded me of something else
I had read. right here.
"The Cuttings" by Robby Hearst.
this brilliant undergraduate.
and he submitted it
to The Portal.
It's this literary magazine.
And then it came to me.
Look what she did here.
"Murder While I Smile".
And watch this.
That's you and that's you.
Look. I don't know what you
think you figured out here-
Since Robby Hearst was known
for plagiarizing.
we thought we'd see if
"The Cutting"
had appeared elsewhere first.
Yeah. And guess what?
He just ripped words right off
the page of a 19th century
short story written
by Edwin Bowles.
Which unfortunately
is out of print now.
Yeah.
However. guess
where we found it?
I'll go check right away.
Detective.
Grover College library.
Professor Heinz-Clark helped us.
You remember her. Robby?
Guys. I think you're
confused here.
I'm Blake.
I'm not confused.
Does that say Blake?
No. it doesn't.
It says Robert Hearst.
Driver's license from the state
of Montana issued to you.
son of Walker Hearst.
shortlisted twice
for the Pulitzer.
Yeah. here's one of his books.
It's actually really good.
And you know. it can be
challenging being a child
of a successful writer.
trust me. I know.
You know. I'm just interested.
How did you explain to your
father the name change?
Did you just tell him
that you wanted to get out
from underneath his shadow?
I don't really get involved
with psychological stuff.
What I care about is the fact
that you changed your name
two weeks after you graduated
from Grover College
after you killed Jill Ives.
And then you came to Elmstead
as Blake Newman and everything
was perfect until you submitted
"Green Blades" to Nicole Ford.
Now Nicole had this habit
of scanning
all of her students' work.
Amy: We spent hours over
at Nicole's home office
going through paperwork
from that semester.
The only thing physically
missing was your writing.
More specifically this one.
"Green Blades".
You submitted it to Nicole
Ford and this is what she wrote.
"I know this. it was a portal
submission through Jill Ives."
Now. Nicole knew this was
plagiarized. right?
And she confronted you about it.
This is insane.
Is that what you told her?
But she didn't believe you
so you had to act.
But this time you didn't copy
a story.
you copied a murder.
And you couldn't leave
it unsolved.
but lucky for you. you had
someone to take the fall.
Yeah. poor Mac.
You know. we spoke to your
physical therapist. Linda.
earlier this morning.
And she did confirm that you
were there the day before
Nicole's murder.
which was brilliant
because you had direct access
to Mac's safe.
And then you dropped out
of Elmstead.
You came here. got a job.
wrote your book. sold it.
I mean. you were on the brink
of success.
Yeah. but then Ella Quincy
showed up.
She was a Grover College
graduate.
she was a work study student
under Jill Ives.
She recognized you.
Mmmhmm.
So you told her that you were
gonna pay her off.
Great. thanks.
But instead you killed her.
[chuckles]
Seriously?
Well. that is quite a story.
If you don't mind I might even
borrow some of it
for my next book.
And when I do write it I'll make
sure my detective character
has actual proof.
But we got a warrant to search
your apartment this morning
and that sweet little landlady
of yours.
she let us in.
Guess what we found?
Boom.
Amy: All the original
paperwork stolen
from Nicole's home office.
And these could have only
been taken at the time
she was murdered.
As far as Ella Quincy's
concerned.
you know that she scratched
her aggressor?
She got some of his DNA
under her fingernails.
Which I think we're going
to match to yours shortly
down at the station.
Travis!
[groans]
Blake! Stop!
Easy. Detective.
You wanna add assaulting
an officer?
Shut up.
You don't understand.
You're gonna have to do this.
This is a glock 19 pointed
at the base of your neck.
And if I were you I would
drop those scissors.
[groans]
[choking]
Stop!
[gasping]
Stop.
For what it's worth you were
right about my dad.
Dad's illness changed
everything.
It's how I ended up taking
shortcuts with my writing.
It took over my life.
Starting with who I was
and what I was willing to do.
Watch your head. Blake.
Hey.
Oh.
[message alert]
Sorry. Amy.
It's Detective Clawson.
He wants to talk to us.
Ok.
He's been released.
Hey. Howard.
Look. you know. when
I caught the Ford case
I took what was handed to me.
Didn't ask questions.
But you do.
I panicked.
Wrote that stupid note.
Threatened you.
I'll be going to see
Mac McKinnon.
I don't know what else to say
but I'm sorry.
And thank you for getting
it right.
All's well that ends well.
Take care.
Yeah. you too.
Well.
Coffee?
Yeah.
I never imagined that I'd be
getting my life back
in a couple weeks.
So you know how grateful
I am to you.
It was a team effort.
Yeah.
You and Travis. you make
a great team.
I'd stick with him
if I were you.
Yeah.
We do make a good team.
don't we?
♪ You tell me
you're leaving. ♪
♪ Your shadow
will walk beside me. ♪
♪ I was believin'. ♪
♪ We'd follow this through ♪
Hey. thank you for dinner.
Yeah. my pleasure.
Oh. my dad's just landing in
New York for the book tour.
Ah. is that why he didn't
join us?
[laughs]
That's awful but yes.
that's so true.
Oh. uh. by the way. I forgot to
tell you I talked to Mac today.
And?
And he said he was grateful.
Well. I know the feeling.
Hmm?
Amy.
I'm grateful.
What're you grateful for?
For you.
♪ ♪
♪ I don't want nothing. ♪
♪ I don't want nothing
but you. ♪
♪ Wooo. wooo ♪
♪ I don't want nothing
but you ♪